Add Tizen Studio 6.0 Release Notes (#2028)
Samsung/tizen-docs: docs/application/tizen-studio/release-notes/6-0-release-notes.md

# Tizen Studio 6.0 Release Notes

- Release Date: Oct 30, 2024

## IDE and tools

### New features
- Tizen Studio
  - Added Tizen-9.0 profile and deprecated all Tizen profiles below 6.0.

>   - Tizen issue reporter added in SDK and Baseline tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Tizen Issue Reporter added in SDK and Baseline tools.
```

  - Tizen Studio and tools are now supported on Windows 11 OS.
- Visual Studio Code
  - TV Web development has been added along with TV Web Simulator and Web Inspector features.
  - SDK Installation wizard is provided to easily setup the Tizen SDK and Extensions.
  - Added UnitTest and Code Coverage, ASAN and LSAN tools support for Tizen Native Applications.
  - Added .NET Diagnostics tools(GCDump, Dump and Trace) for Tizen .NET Applications.

>   - WASM(Web Assembly) feature has been added for Tizen Web Applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - WASM (WebAssembly) feature has been added for Tizen Web Applications.
```

>   - Tizen Activity bar, Device monitoring  and Welcome page features have been added to enhance Tizen developer experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Tizen Activity bar, Device Monitoring  and Welcome Page features have been added to enhance Tizen Developer experience.
```

  - Update .NET workload option is added.
- Visual Studio (Windows)
  - Added UnitTest and Code Coverage support for Tizen Native Applications.
  - Added ASAN and LSAN tools support for Tizen Native Applications.

>   - Added right click menu named "Install Tizen Application" to install application directly on a target device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Added right click menu named **"Install Tizen Application"** to install application directly on a target device.
```

  - Added Issue Reporter menu to report issues related to VS plugin.
  

### Fixed bugs
  - Fixed the issue of Tizen studio launcher splash image getting flipped in macOS Sonoma.

>   - Fixed the issue of rpk packages not installing in tv using sdb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of rpk packages not being installed in TV using SDB.
```

>   - Fixed the issue of .NET workload getting installed on every launch in VSCode plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of .NET workload getting installed on every launch in VS Code plugin.
```

>   - Fixed the build issue of Tizen Native Shared Library projects in VSCode plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the build issue of Tizen Native Shared Library projects in VS Code plugin.
```

>   - Fixed the issue of newly added source and resource files not getting updated in Native project config in VSCode plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of newly added source and resource files not getting updated in Native project config in VS Code plugin.
```

>   - Fixed the issue of ``tizen-manifest.xml`` not opening for native and ``TizenNUIGadget_inhouse`` project in VS plugin.

Reviewer: Please check if you missed this comment @vivek-ellur

>   - Fixed the issue of ``tizen-manifest.xml`` not opening for native and ``TizenNUIGadget_inhouse`` project in VS plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of ``tizen-manifest.xml`` not opening for Native, and ``TizenNUIGadget_inhouse`` project in VS plugin.
```

>   - Fixed the issue of all files are deleted when creating a project inside an existing solution in VS plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of all files getting deleted whenever creating a project inside an existing solution in VS plugin.
```

>   - Fixed the issue of dotnet trace gets stuck in VS plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of .NET trace getting stuck in VS plugin.
```

>   - Fixed the issue of certificate change not getting impacted by prompting user to restart VS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of Certificate change not getting impacted by prompting the user to restart VS.
```

>   - Fixed the issue of application launching in unselected device in VS plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of application being launched in unselected device in VS plugin.
```

>   - Fixed the issue of Dotnet profiler session not closing on creation of another project in VS plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Fixed the issue of .NET profiler session not closing upon the creation of another project in VS plugin.
```

### Known issues

  - On macOS, if the UI perspectives are not displayed properly after updating Tizen Studio, it is recommended to restart the IDE. This issue is because of the uncleared cache from the previous installation.
  - In case you see any old perspective, it is recommended to create a new workspace and import the projects to the new workspace to resolve the issue.

>   - On macOS, since Catalina and above versions, Native Templates-5.5 will not build with CLI when the compiler is set to **GCC**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - On macOS, from Catalina and above versions, Native Templates 5.5 will not build with CLI when the compiler is set to **GCC**.
```

- Common
  - If you install Tizen Studio in a directory that requires administrator privileges for access, an alert will be given. For example, for **C:\ProgramFiles**, location administrator privilege is needed to run Tizen SDK tools. Tizen Installer and Baseline SDK Installer alerts you if you try to install it into such a directory.

>   - On macOS, Tizen Studio won't work properly if it is installed on Desktop directory, that is **$HOME/Desktop**. However it works properly if it is installed on any other directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - On macOS, Tizen Studio will not work properly if it is installed on the desktop directory, that is **/HOME/Desktop**. However, it works properly if it is installed on any other directory.
```

- Web and Native IDE
  - You can create unit tests for Tizen 2.3.2 and higher version projects only. Unit testing for older versions is not supported.
- Web IDE

>   - The preview tab in the Web Page Editor sometimes does not appear properly. In this case, you can use an alternative feature, named Web SDK HTML Editor, which has enhanced features compared to the Web Page Editor. Instead of the preview tab in the Web Page Editor, use the preview feature **Ctrl + 4** of the Web SDK HTML Editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The preview tab in the Web Page Editor sometimes does not appear properly. In this case, you can use an alternative feature, named Web SDK HTML Editor, which has enhanced features compared to the Web Page Editor. Instead of the preview tab in the Web Page Editor, use the preview feature **Ctrl+4** of the Web SDK HTML Editor.
```

  - In Rapid Development Support (RDS) mode, the web unit test result is not updated.
  - Remote Inspector does not allow audit in the updated version of Chrome.
- Certificate Manager

>   - Overwriting a duplicate certificate profile in the migration wizard works incorrectly on macOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Overwriting a duplicate Certificate profile in the migration wizard does not work correctly on macOS.
```

- Emulator

>   - In Tizen 5.5 version, the emulator images app uninstallation might take some time to complete if the app name contains more than 14 characters. A patch for the same is expected to be released in the next update.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - In Tizen 5.5 version, the uninstallation of emulator images app might take some time to complete if the app name contains more than 14 characters. A patch for this is expected to be released in the next update.
```

>   - To use Tizen Emulator, use Intel VTx supported CPU and the latest version of the graphic card driver provided by the vendor. To verify the prerequisites for Tizen Emulator, see [Prerequisites for Tizen Studio](../setup/prerequisites.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To use Tizen Emulator, use Intel VTx supported CPU and the latest version of the graphics card driver provided by the vendor. To verify the prerequisites for Tizen Emulator, check [Prerequisites for Tizen Studio](../setup/prerequisites.md).
```

  - If the host machine is using NVIDIA&reg; Optimus&reg; technology on either Ubuntu or Windows, you must set Tizen Emulator to run with your NVIDIA&reg; graphics card. For Ubuntu, verify the [Bumblebee Project](https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Bumblebee){:target="_blank"}. For Windows, select **High Speed NVIDIA&reg; Processor** as **Preferred Graphics Processor** in the NVIDIA&reg; Control Panel.    

>   - On Ubuntu, if the graphics driver is out-of-date while launching Emulator Manager, your Ubuntu desktop session occasionally logs out or the emulator skin is displayed improperly. Verify the prerequisites and upgrade to the latest graphics driver.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - On Ubuntu, if the graphics driver is out-of-date while launching the Emulator Manager, your Ubuntu desktop session occasionally logs out or the emulator skin is displayed improperly. Verify the prerequisites and upgrade to the latest graphics driver.
```

>   - On Windows, depending on your OS theme (such as Non-Aero themes and Windows XP themes), a display surface can be erased for a while if the emulator window is covered with another window. If you click the emulator window, the display surface runs correctly again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - On Windows, depending on your OS theme (such as, Non-Aero themes and Windows XP themes), a display surface can be erased for a while if the emulator window is covered with another window. If you click the emulator window, the display surface runs correctly again.
```

  - On Windows, if an error with the message "failed to allocate memory" occurs while executing the emulator, try the following:
    - Close some other programs and try to launch the emulator again.
    - If the RAM size is set to 768 or 1024 MB for the VM in Emulator Manager, change it to 512 MB.

>     - Increase the user area of the virtual memory in the system to 3 GB by entering the **bcdedit /setincreaseuserva 3072** command on the console with administrator rights (only in Windows 7), and reboot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Increase the user area of the virtual memory in the system to 3 GB by entering the ``**bcdedit /setincreaseuserva 3072**`` command on the console with administrator rights (only on Windows 7), and reboot.
```

  - If you use a MacBook Pro that has both Intel HD and NVIDIA&reg; GPUs, the emulator can terminate unexpectedly when you execute the emulator with OpenGL ES version 1.1 or 2.0. Verify the emulator configuration in Emulator Manager and on the **General** tab in the emulator configuration window, set OpenGL ES version to version 2.0, or to version 3.0.
  - When you launch Emulator Manager in Tizen IDE, the shortcut image of Emulator Manager may not be displayed properly.

>   - Basic web applications are not installed on SD cards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Basic Web Applications are not installed on SD cards.
```

>   - To use Tizen Emulator in Tizen platform 3.0 or lower, disable the CPU VT option in the **HW Support** tab of emulator configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To use Tizen Emulator in Tizen Platform 3.0 or lower, disable the CPU VT option in the **HW Support** tab of the emulator configuration.
```

>   - To use Tizen Emulator in Tizen Platform 3.0 or lower, disable the CPU VT option in the **HW Support** tab of the emulator configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - To use Tizen Emulator in Tizen Platform 3.0 or lower, disable the CPU VT option in the **HW Support** tab of the Emulator configuration.
```

- CLI and SDB
  - Tizen Studio does not support the [Smart Development Bridge](../common-tools/smart-development-bridge.md) (SDB) bash auto-completion on Windows (it is available on Ubuntu and macOS).

>   - sdb install for rpk is not supported in tv 8.0 emulator(it will be supported in tv 9.0 emulator) and makes sdb freeze, press Ctrl+c to unfreeze.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - SDB installation for rpk is not supported in TV 8.0 Emulator and makes the SDB freeze, then press **Ctrl+C** to unfreeze (it will be supported in TV 9.0 Emulator).
```

>   - SDB installation for rpk is not supported in TV 8.0 Emulator and makes the SDB freeze, then press **Ctrl+C** to unfreeze (it will be supported in TV 9.0 Emulator).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - SDB installation for RPK (Resource Package) is not supported in TV 8.0 Emulator and makes the SDB freeze, then press **Ctrl+C** to unfreeze (it will be supported in TV 9.0 Emulator).
```

- Dynamic Analyzer

>   - When analyzing applications on commercial devices running Tizen 3.0, newly-released or after a firmware update, the following problems exist:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - When analyzing applications (newly released or after a firmware update) on commercial devices that run on Tizen 3.0, the following problems exist:
```

    - The core frequency information is not shown.

>     - The screenshots on the scene transitions feature will not work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - The screenshots on the scene transitions feature does not work.
```

>   - When analyzing applications on Tizen 4.0 Emulator or reference device, the startup profiling information is not shown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - When analyzing applications on Tizen 4.0 Emulator for reference device, the startup profiling information is not shown.
```

Reviewer: @vivek-ellur Please check if it is "for reference device" or should it be "or on reference device"

  - The UI Hierarchy viewer feature and startup profiling are not performed simultaneously.

>   - The Dynamic Analyzer cannot show lifecycle information for web applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The Dynamic Analyzer cannot show lifecycle information for Web Applications.
```

>   - Widget applications cannot be profiled with the Dynamic Analyzer. They are hidden in the application list on the toolbar for all Tizen platforms, except Tizen 2.3.2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Widget Applications cannot be profiled with the Dynamic Analyzer. They are hidden in the application list on the toolbar for all Tizen Platforms, except for Tizen 2.3.2.
```
